#summary How to install this addon in Spring Roo
#labels Phase-Deploy

_ Note: If you do the installation from a Roo shell running within STS 2.3.3.M1 you likely won't see any output of the osgi commands mentioned below. So, you might prefer to use a stand-alone Roo shell instead for this. But be aware that the addon will then only be available in stand-alone Roo shell. The reason is that each Roo shell in STS creates its own cache directory in the system's temp directory. And this is (currently) the only place where information about installed third party addons is stored. This even means, that if you want to use the addon in STS Roo shell, you have to install it EVERY time you open or re-open the Roo shell for a project. We assume that such issues will be fixed with final Roo 1.1.0 release ... _

You can install this plugin into Roo 1.1.0.M1 by executing the following commands in the Roo shell (Hint: Roo code completion works for everything below except from the URLs):

{{{
osgi obr url remove --url http://felix.apache.org/obr/releases.xml
osgi obr url add --url http://spring-roo-equals-roo-addon.googlecode.com/svn/maven-repository/repository.xml
osgi obr start --bundleSymbolicName de.saxsys.roo.equals.addon
}}}

_ The first step is required since Felix OBR currently causes errors (some NullPointerException) during bundle (step 3) installation. In future versions of Roo this might be fixed and this step might be omitted._

As an *alternative to the first two steps*, you can also edit conf/config.properties of your Roo installation and replace http://felix.apache.org/obr/releases.xml with http://spring-roo-equals-roo-addon.googlecode.com/svn/maven-repository/repository.xml there. You can also add more third party addon repositories there (separated by space), but in any case you should remove URL of Felix OBR:

{{{
felix.log.level=1
felix.auto.deploy.action=install,start
obr.repository.url=http://spring-roo-equals-roo-addon.googlecode.com/svn/maven-repository/repository.xml
}}}

Now you can verify that the plugin is active by:
  * osgi ps

You should see something like:
{{{
...
[  53] [Active     ] [    1] Spring Roo - Addon - equals() and hashCode() (1.0.0)
}}}

Next step: See [Usage how to use] the equals addon.